New integration: Medcom Bluetooth radiation monitors (#28956)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/medcom_ble.markdown

---
title: Medcom Bluetooth
description: Integrate International Medcom radiation monitors
ha_category:
  - Environment
  - Sensor
ha_release: '2023.10'

> ha_iot_class: Local Poll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
```

ha_codeowners:
  - '@elafargue'
ha_domain: medcom_ble
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_config_flow: true

> hw_integration_type: integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_integration_type: integration
```

---

Integrates International Medcom Bluetooth-enabled radiation monitors into Home Assistant.

> [International Medcom](https://medcom.com/) is an American company that manufactures high quality radiation detection instruments that are used in professional environments, for home and office, and by community projects worldwide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[International Medcom](https://medcom.com/) is an American company that manufactures radiation detection instruments for professional environments, home and office, and community projects worldwide.
```

> [International Medcom](https://medcom.com/) is an American company that manufactures high quality radiation detection instruments that are used in professional environments, for home and office, and by community projects worldwide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[International Medcom](https://medcom.com/) is an American company that manufactures radiation detection instruments that are used in professional environments, for home and office, and by community projects worldwide.
```

high quality seems like an endorsement, ideally we want docs to be a factual as possible

> This integration adds support for the Medcom [Inspector BLE](https://medcom.com/product/inspector-ble/) which is equipped with a Bluetooth low energy interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration supports the Medcom [Inspector BLE](https://medcom.com/product/inspector-ble/) via a Bluetooth low-energy interface.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

The Medcom Bluetooth integration will automatically discover devices once the [Bluetooth](integrations/bluetooth) integration is enabled and working. It will list each detected Inspector using its Bluetooth MAC address as the serial number.

> In order to limit the load on the Bluetooth radio on the Home Assistant side, the integration only polls for a reading every 5 minutes, which should be perfectly adequate for ongoing background monitoring. An Inspector BLE battery should last several months with continuous use before needing replacement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit the load on the Bluetooth radio on the Home Assistant side, the integration only polls for a reading every 5 minutes, which should be adequate for ongoing background monitoring. An Inspector BLE battery should last several months with continuous use before needing replacement.
```
